{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f51\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f52\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1474410}{\*\generator Micro
soft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\author libstu}{\operator libstu}{\creatim\yr2009\mo1\dy15\hr3\min18}{\revtim\yr2009\mo1\dy15\hr4\min31}{\version2}{\edmins73}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords301}{\nofchars1717}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws2014}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot1474410 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid1474410 Seth Whittington
\par Client-Side Programming
\par 1-14-09
\par 
\par Java vs. Javascript
\par 
\par \tab 
Java and Javascript are both Object Oriented Programming (OOP) languages, meaning that both use "objects" or controls to design applications and computer programs. Java is a programming language originally developed by Sun Microsystems and was released in
 1995. JavaScript was first introduced by Netscape in 1995. 
\par 
\par \tab JavaScipt must be placed inside an HTML document to function whereas Java, much larger and more complex, can create stand alone applications. A Java "applet" is a fully contained mini program, J
avaScript is text that must be fed into a browser to be read and enacted. Java must be compiled into "machine language" before it can run on the Web. A programmer writes the Java code, then another programmer changes the code into a smaller language. It i
s then formatted so the computer can see it as a program with beginning and ending points. Nothing can be added or subtracted at this point without destroying the program. 
\par 
\par \tab JavaScript is text-based, after it is compiled and ran through the browser it can 
be altered, but it will have to be compiled again. Java applets run independent of the HTML document, the delivery is done through a download to the user's cache. JavaScript is wholly dependent on the browser to understand it and show it.
\par 
\par \tab Java can be use
d to create anything from small web page events to entire databases to full browsers, it is versatile but difficult to understand. JavaScript can be understood easier, and allows faster creation of Web page events. Many JavaScript commands can be embedded
 right into existing HTML commands, and allows more freedom in the creation of objects. Java is less flexible and requires all items to be denoted and spelled out.
\par 
\par 
\par http://www.htmlgoodies.com/beyond/javascript/article.php/3470971
\par 
\par http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming
\par 
\par http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Javascript_(programming_language)
\par 
\par http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_(programming_language)
\par }}